{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Arial;}}
\f0\fs24
\b Jam Audio Toolkit Documentation\b0\par
Ridiculously fast Unity audio implementation for game jams.\par
\par
Free for personal and commercial Unity projects.\par
\par
\b Table of Contents\b0\par
1. Overview\par
2. Requirements\par
3. Installation\par
4. Quick Demo\par
5. Creating Sound Events\par
6. Creating Music Events\par
7. No-Code Playback\par
8. Programmer API\par
9. Controls and Units\par
10. Troubleshooting\par
11. Licensing and Third-Party Notices\par
\par
\b 1. Overview\b0\par
Jam Audio Toolkit helps Unity users add practical game audio quickly without
building a custom audio system first. It provides reusable Sound Event and
Music Event assets, no-code Jam Audio Player components, music crossfades,
filters, pitch and volume variation, 2D or 3D positioning, and simple script
calls through JamAudio.\par
\par
\b 2. Requirements\b0\par
Unity 2022.3 LTS or newer is recommended. Each scene that plays audio needs
one active AudioListener, usually on the Main Camera. If a scene has no
AudioListener, use GameObject > Jam Audio > Ensure Audio Listener On Main
Camera.\par
\par
\b 3. Installation\b0\par
Install Jam Audio Toolkit from the Unity Asset Store or through Unity Package
Manager. After installation, create Jam Audio assets from Create > Jam Audio or
use the GameObject > Jam Audio menu to add no-code scene helper components.\par
\par
\b 4. Quick Demo\b0\par
Open Window > Package Manager, select Jam Audio Toolkit, expand Samples, and
import Quick Demo. Open the imported Quick Demo scene, press Play, then use the
UI buttons to test random sound effects, music playback, crossfades, pause,
resume, and stop.\par
\par
\b 5. Creating Sound Events\b0\par
Use Sound Events for sound effects, UI sounds, impacts, footsteps, ambience,
and loops. Right-click in the Project window and choose Create > Jam Audio >
Empty Sound Event. Add one or more clips to Clip(s), then adjust Volume (%),
Pitch (%), filters, positioning, and randomization settings.\par
\par
You can also select one or more AudioClip assets and choose Create > Jam Audio
> Sound Event From Selected Clip(s). One clip is fine. Multiple clips are useful
for variation such as footsteps, impacts, or repeated UI sounds.\par
\par
\b 6. Creating Music Events\b0\par
Use Music Events for menu music, level music, combat music, and tracks that
should fade or crossfade. Right-click in the Project window and choose Create >
Jam Audio > Empty Music Event. Assign a music clip, then set Volume (%), Loop,
Persist Across Scenes, filters, and Fade In/Fade Out durations.\par
\par
\b 7. No-Code Playback\b0\par
Use Jam Audio Player when a GameObject should play a Sound Event from common
Unity callbacks such as Start, OnEnable, Trigger Enter, or Collision Enter.
Use Jam Music Player when a scene object should request music automatically or
from a UnityEvent. Jam Audio Players are optional scene helpers; code can call
JamAudio directly without adding these components.\par
\par
\b 8. Programmer API\b0\par
Sounds:\par
JamAudio.Play(soundEvent); plays a Sound Event using its default positioning.\par
JamAudio.Play(soundEvent, gameObject); plays from a GameObject position.\par
JamAudio.Play(soundEvent, component); plays from a Component transform.\par
JamAudio.Play(soundEvent, transform); plays from a Transform position.\par
JamAudio.PlayAtPosition(soundEvent, worldPosition); plays at a Vector3 world
position.\par
\par
Music:\par
JamAudio.Play(musicEvent); plays or crossfades to a Music Event.\par
JamAudio.PlayMusic(musicEvent); same as JamAudio.Play for music.\par
JamAudio.PauseMusic(); pauses current music using the current fade settings.\par
JamAudio.ResumeMusic(); resumes paused music using the current fade settings.\par
JamAudio.StopMusic(); stops current music using the current fade settings.\par
\par
\b 9. Controls and Units\b0\par
Volume (%) is displayed as 0 to 100 percent and is converted to Unity's linear
0 to 1 AudioSource volume scale. Pitch (%) is displayed as 0 to 300 percent,
where 100 percent is normal pitch and speed. Volume Variation (%) and Pitch
Variation (%) use Min (-%) and Max (+%) offsets around the base value. Low-Pass
Filter (%) removes high frequencies as the value increases. High-Pass Filter
(%) removes low frequencies as the value increases. Fade In (Seconds) and Fade
Out (Seconds) are measured in seconds.\par
\par
\b 10. Troubleshooting\b0\par
If nothing plays, check that the Sound Event or Music Event has an assigned
clip, the scene has one active AudioListener, playback is happening in Play
Mode, and any assigned Audio Mixer Group is not muted. For 3D sounds, make sure
the listener and sound source positions are sensible. For trigger or collision
sounds, make sure the GameObject has the required Collider or Collider2D and
that Unity's physics callback requirements are met.\par
\par
\b 11. Licensing and Third-Party Notices\b0\par
The Jam Audio Toolkit code is licensed under the BSD Zero Clause License. See
LICENSE for details. Demo music is by Patrick Sullivan and is included with
permission from the rights holder for use as demo/sample content in this
product. See Third-Party Notices.txt for details.\par
}
